# HypothesisTesting

<b>Q1.</b>Suppose a child psychologist claims that the average time working mothers spend talking to their children is at least 11 minutes per day. You conduct a random sample of 1000 working mothers and find they spend an average of 11.5 minutes per day talking with their children. Assume prior research suggests the population standard deviation is 2.3 minutes.Conduct a test with a level of significance of alpha = 0.05.

Answer:-Since we have a sample of 1000, which is greater than 30, and we have a sample mean, standard deviation, and want to compare the sample mean to a population value ,so we can use <b>Z-test</b>.Since our calculated z-score (6.87)(Explained in HypothesisTesting.ipynb) is much greater than the critical value (1.645), we reject the null hypothesis. We have sufficient evidence to conclude that the average time working mothers spend talking to their children is more than 11 minutes per day.

<b>Q2.</b> A coffee shop claims that their average wait time for customers is less than 5 minutes. To test this claim, a sample of 40 customers is taken, and their wait times are recorded. The sample mean wait time is found to be 4.6 minutes with a standard deviation of 0.8 minutes. Perform a hypothesis test at a significance level of 0.05 and determine whether there is enough evidence to support the coffee shop's claim.

Answer:-Here the population std is unknown, so we can use <b>t-test</b> for this. If the sample size is small (typically <30) and the population standard deviation is unknown, the t-test is appropriate.Then function t.ppf(alpha, df) calculates a <b>critical value</b> from the t-distribution based on the provided significance level (alpha) and degrees of freedom (df).Since our calculated t_test(-3.16) is less than the critical t-value (-1.685), we fail to accept the null hypothesis. There is enough evidence to support the claim that the average wait time for customers is less than 5 minutes at a significance level of 0.05.
